docs/support.md, before:

# RHEL support in DCI

If you are using RHEL you are probably familiar with CDN or FTP. CDN contains officially released and supported content. FTP contains pre-release content. The FTP is updated manually and on demand. DCI allows you to get access to pre-release content in an automated way.

## RHEL compose

Red Hat Enterprise Linux content is in the form of a compose. A compose is a list of RPMs grouped by variants and by architectures.

## Arches

DCI supports x86_64, aarch64 and ppc64le architectures.

## Variants

DCI supports AppStream, BaseOS, CRB, HighAvailability, NFV, RT, ResilientStorage, SAP, SAPHANA variants.

## Versions

RHEL major version corresponds to the first digit in the version number. Currently there is 2 major version of RHEL in DCI: version 8 and version 9

RHEL minor version corresponds to the second digit in the version number. E.g. `RHEL-8.5` or `RHEL-9.0`.

## Tags

Each composes are tagged. A compose can have the tag `nightly`, `candidate`, `milestone` or `update`.

- `nightly` composes are built every day, tested and imported to Beaker and Openstack. Those nightlies contain verified RPMs.

- When Red Hat prepare the next RHEL version, a `nightly` become `candidate` then `milestone`.
  `nightly`, `candidate` and `milestone` composes are all the very same composes with the very same content, they differ in the amount of testing they received.

- When a compose is released and supported by Red Hat, some updates are continuously produced. Some composes after General Availability are tagged with the `update` tags.

Note: composes are tested internally. When tests failed DCI ignore those composes. So it is normal that the last nightly could be a few days old.

## Topics

A topic is an abstraction to group different composes together. The name of the topic contains the major and minor version. E.g. RHEL-8.5.

For example you can list the components for the `RHEL-9.0` topic:

- `RHEL-9.0.0-20211121.7` | tags: `nightly`, `kernel:5.14.0-17.el9`
- `RHEL-9.0.0-20211120.6` | tags: `nightly`, `kernel:5.14.0-17.el9`
- `RHEL-9.0.0-20211026.1` | tags: `candidate`, `kernel:5.14.0-17.el9`

Note: When you list topics in DCI you may see a channel in the name. E.g. `RHEL-8.4-milestone`. This feature has been deprecated in favor of [dci-downloader filters](https://docs.distributed-ci.io/dci-downloader/#filters).

If you want to access RHEL-9.0 nightlies only for example, you will have the appropriate filter in your settings file.

```
topics:
  - name: RHEL-9.0
    filters:
      - type: compose
        tag: nightly
```

Note: We recommend to use the topic name without filters. Like that you will always have the latest component available for the topic.

## FAQ

### How can I test the latest major version ?

You can use a wildcard filter `RHEL-{8|9}.*` to download the latest available RHEL version in the topic name.

E.g. Get the latest RHEL-9 topic available in DCI:

```
topics:
  - name: RHEL-9.*
```

### Where can some documentation about the Red Hat Enterprise Linux Life Cycle?

[Red Hat Enterprise Linux Life Cycle official document](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/errata)

Commit message:

Ability to use a distro outside of beaker
This adds the ability to use an existing beaker without creating systems
or importing distros into beaker.

Change-Id: I36526fadaf5325eb64542f85906b8c718379fc4f

docs/support.md, after:

# RHEL support in DCI

If you are using RHEL you are probably familiar with CDN or FTP. CDN contains officially released and supported content. FTP contains pre-release content. The FTP is updated manually and on demand. DCI allows you to get access to pre-release content in an automated way.

## RHEL compose

Red Hat Enterprise Linux content is in the form of a compose. A compose is a list of RPMs grouped by variants and by architectures.

## Arches

DCI supports x86_64, aarch64 and ppc64le architectures.

## Variants

DCI supports AppStream, BaseOS, CRB, HighAvailability, NFV, RT, ResilientStorage, SAP, SAPHANA variants.

## Versions

RHEL major version corresponds to the first digit in the version number. Currently there is 2 major version of RHEL in DCI: version 8 and version 9

RHEL minor version corresponds to the second digit in the version number. E.g. `RHEL-8.5` or `RHEL-9.0`.

## Tags

Each composes are tagged. A compose can have the tag `nightly`, `candidate`, `milestone` or `update`.

- `nightly` composes are built every day, tested and imported to Beaker and Openstack. Those nightlies contain verified RPMs.

- When Red Hat prepare the next RHEL version, a `nightly` become `candidate` then `milestone`.
  `nightly`, `candidate` and `milestone` composes are all the very same composes with the very same content, they differ in the amount of testing they received.

- When a compose is released and supported by Red Hat, some updates are continuously produced. Some composes after General Availability are tagged with the `update` tags.

Note: composes are tested internally. When tests failed DCI ignore those composes. So it is normal that the last nightly could be a few days old.

## Topics

A topic is an abstraction to group different composes together. The name of the topic contains the major and minor version. E.g. RHEL-8.5.

For example you can list the components for the `RHEL-9.0` topic:

- `RHEL-9.0.0-20211121.7` | tags: `nightly`, `kernel:5.14.0-17.el9`
- `RHEL-9.0.0-20211120.6` | tags: `nightly`, `kernel:5.14.0-17.el9`
- `RHEL-9.0.0-20211026.1` | tags: `candidate`, `kernel:5.14.0-17.el9`

Note: When you list topics in DCI you may see a channel in the name. E.g. `RHEL-8.4-milestone`. This feature has been deprecated in favor of [dci-downloader filters](https://docs.distributed-ci.io/dci-downloader/#filters).

If you want to access RHEL-9.0 nightlies only for example, you will have the appropriate filter in your settings file.

```
topics:
  - name: RHEL-9.0
    filters:
      - type: compose
        tag: nightly
```

Note: We recommend to use the topic name without filters. Like that you will always have the latest component available for the topic.

## External Beaker

It is possible to use a beaker instance that isn't under DCI control.  The following steps need to be done.

- Configure ~/.beaker_client/config
  - HUB_URL point to the beaker instance and configure authentication.  If you are using kerberos you will need to kinit with either a keytab or a password before running the dci-rhel-agent-ctl command.
- Add the contents of /etc/dci-rhel-agent/secrets/id_rsa.pub to the ssh keys of the user in beaker
  - https://BEAKER.FQDN/prefs/#ssh-public-keys
- Add the FQDN of the system you want to test against in /etc/dci-rhel-agent/settings.yml

```
topics:
  - topic: RHEL-8.6
    systems:
      - SUT.IN.BEAKER.FQDN
```

- Finally pass --ext-bkr to the dci-rhel-agent-ctl command

## FAQ

### How can I test the latest major version ?

You can use a wildcard filter `RHEL-{8|9}.*` to download the latest available RHEL version in the topic name.

E.g. Get the latest RHEL-9 topic available in DCI:

```
topics:
  - name: RHEL-9.*
```

### Where can some documentation about the Red Hat Enterprise Linux Life Cycle?

[Red Hat Enterprise Linux Life Cycle official document](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/errata)
